>> Richard Feldman: So, we're gonna
talk about four different types of type
annotations, or sort of four categories.
One is annotating primitives.
Talk about annotating type parameters,
type aliases, and typing functions.
All right, so
let's start with a plain old declaration,
of the type we've seen many before.
So, username = the string rtfeldman.
So something I could do here is I could,
if I wanted to, I could add a sort of
comment here that says query or username,
this thing right here is a string.
Another way I could do this is
I could write it like this.
This is a type annotation that
says this username is a string.
The bottom one is more of reliable in the
sense that the compiler will enforce it.
It will actually check to see if this
username value is in fact a string.
One of the things about comments
is they can get out of date.
For example, maybe this thing
used to be called query and
I renamed it to username but I forgot to
update the comma, the comment rather.
I didn't actually intend for
this to be this way.
I actually just forgot to
update it on the slide,
which works out in a funny way
of demonstrating the point.
If you have documentation
that can get out of date,
chances are it's going to get out of date.
We're human, we make mistakes.
One of the nice ways that Elm's compiler
can help us out is it can actually fix
things like this for us.
It can catch them and
give us an error message, if we try to
build our code and this is out of date.
So as we've seen, we don't need these.
I did Java programming for many years,
sort of earlier in my career.
And I would have to write out
type annotations all the time,
whereas Elm does type inference.
It figures out what all they types are,
and it will tell us about
errors regardless of whether or not we
actually put these annotations in there.
They're optional, but
they can be a nice form of documentation.
And it's usually considered best
practice to use them at least for
your top level declarations.
If you're doing them inside a let,
no real need.
But at least at the top level,
functions and things like that.
Generally speaking, it's a good idea
to annotate them just as a form of
documentation for
whoever comes across the code next.